To integrate our Organoid KG with PrimeKG we first downloaded the PrimeKG csv file from its [GitHub repository](https://github.com/mims-harvard/PrimeKG.git}{https://github.com/mims-harvard/PrimeKG.git) by following the ‘Getting started in Python’ section of the README. Prior to integration, we examined the PrimeKG csv file, which includes columns used to define the nodes and edges. In the following, quotations indicate column names; for each node in the knowledge graph, they provide a node index (‘x_index’ or ‘y_index’), which is a unique index to identify the nodes x and y, respectively, in PrimeKG; node id (‘x_id’ or ‘y_id’) indicates the identifier of the node from its ontology; node type (‘x_type’ or ‘y_type’) indicates the node type; node name (‘x_name’ or ‘y_name’) indicates the name of the node as provided by the ontology; and node source (‘x_source’ or ‘y_source’) indicates the ontology from which ‘node_id’ and ‘node_name’ fields were extracted. For each edge in PrimeKG, they provide ‘relation’, which is the name of the edge type that connects the two nodes ‘x_index’ and ‘y_index.’ We also used Bash grep commands to identify common nodes with our knowledge graph. This analysis also helped us decide if any portions of PrimeKG should be excluded to better focus on the entities and relationships most pertinent to our research. We determined that the organoid type and perturbagen node classes might have nodes in common with PrimeKG. To save computational time, we first created a Python script that creates a filtered version of the original PrimeKG csv. This script extracts matching nodes between the x_name columns in the PrimeKG csv and the perturbagen and organoid type columns of our KG csv and saves these rows in a new csv file. 

We also created an additional Python script that reads the filtered PrimeKG csv and constructs a Cypher query that merges nodes (x and y) based on their names, sets properties and adds labels to these nodes, and creates relationships between nodes. To solve conflicts between the node properties from PrimeKG and those from OrganoidKG, such as source and source id properties from different ontologies, we set PrimeKG's properties in that case. However, all node labels were added for matching nodes, which allows the nodes to be queried under both their PrimeKG and Organoid KG node labels, as well as by name.
